docs: Pod priority based graceful node shutdown (#30611)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes.md

reserved for terminating [critical pods](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/guaranteed-scheduling-critical-addon-pods/#marking-pod-as-critical).

{{< note >}}

> When pods were evicted during the graceful node shutdown, they are marked as shutdown.

Reviewer: See https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/30611#pullrequestreview-815583239 for what looks like a correction based on actual behavior.

> When pods were evicted during the graceful node shutdown, they are marked as shutdown.

Author: Yes, #30611 (review) is correct, I updated based on that.

> Running `kubectl get pods` shows the status of the the evicted pods as `Shutdown`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running `kubectl get pods` shows the status of the the evicted pods as `Terminated`.
```

Author: Done

And `kubectl describe pod` indicates that the pod was evicted because of node shutdown:

```

> Reason:         Shutdown
> Message:        Node is shutting, evicting pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reason:         Terminated
Message:        Pod was terminated in response to imminent node shutdown.
```

Reviewer: Does this also show up as an Event?

Author: Done

Author: Yes, it shows up as an event as well.

```

{{< /note >}}

### Pod Priority based graceful node shutdown {#pod-priority-graceful-node-shutdown}

{{< feature-state state="alpha" for_k8s_version="v1.23" >}}

To provide more flexibility during graceful node shutdown around the ordering

> of pods during shutdown, pod priority based graceful node shutdown feature

Author: Fixed.

allows cluster administers to explicitly define the ordering of pods during

> graceful node shutdown based on [priority classes](docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/#priorityclass).

Author: Done

The [Graceful Node Shutdown](#graceful-node-shutdown) feature, as described
above, shuts down pods in two phases, non-critical pods, followed by critical
pods. If additional flexibility is needed to explicitly define the ordering of
pods during shutdown in a more granular way, pod priority based graceful
shutdown can be used.

> Pod Priority based graceful node shutdown makes it possible to do graceful node

Author: Done, thanks for rewording

shutdown in multiple phases, each phase shutting down a particular priority
class of pods. The kubelet can be configured with the exact phases and shutdown
time per phase.

Assuming the following custom pod [priority
classes](docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/#priorityclass)
in a cluster,

|Pod priority class name|Pod priority class value|
|-----------------------|------------------------|
|custom-class-a         | 100000                 |
|custom-class-b         | 10000                  |
|custom-class-c         | 1000                   |

> |regular/unset          | 0                      |

Author: Done

> The [kubelet configuration](/docs/reference/config-api/kubelet-config.v1beta1/#kubelet-config-k8s-io-v1beta1-KubeletConfiguration) `ShutdownGracePeriodByPodPriority` could look like:

Author: Done.

> |Pod priority class value|Shutdown period|

Author: The column is correct, but I'm a little worried it might make it more confusing and might be better to explain the "greater than equal to next phase" logic in the actual text.

|------------------------|---------------|
| 100000                 |10 seconds     |
| 10000                  |180 seconds    |
| 1000                   |120 seconds    |
| 0                      |60 seconds     |

The corresponding kubelet config YAML configuration would be:

```yaml
shutdownGracePeriodByPodPriority:
  - priority: 100000
    shutdownGracePeriodSeconds: 10
  - priority: 10000
    shutdownGracePeriodSeconds: 180
  - priority: 1000
    shutdownGracePeriodSeconds: 120
  - priority: 0
    shutdownGracePeriodSeconds: 60
```

The above table implies that any pod with priority value >= 100000 will get
just 10 seconds to stop, any pod with value >= 10000 and < 100000 will get 180
seconds to stop, any pod with value >= 1000 and < 10000 will get 120 seconds to stop.
Finally, all other pods will get 60 seconds to stop.

One doesn't have to specify values corresponding to all of the classes. For

> e.g. the config could also be

Author: Done.
